ARCmod 1.0 by Mike Smullens

This code is provided as-is.  It is a small portion of the code written
for Aarchon (darkhorse.triad.net:7000).  This code patch is only for
advanced implementors, it will require familiarity with the code to get
it running and adapt it to your own mud.  It is also suggested that the
creation and stat system only be used for muds that arent open yet,
because it will be traumatic to change the stat system on existing
players.

If anyone wants to improve this and redistribute it, be my guest, just
include my name in the credits.  If you wish to add it to ROM, along with
things like color code and OLC, you could probably distribute it as a new
code base.

You can email me at smote@mindless.com, but please no complaints or
requests for me to adapt the code to your mud.  If you have a specific
question I may be able to answer it.

It includes an intricate character creation code that makes every character
unique.  There are 3 levels of complexity ranging from instant to full,
allowing for both diehard players and newbies who just want to get started.
It is assumed there are 10 stats, which your mud will probably not have.
You may adapt it to whichever stats you have, or use these 10 and then
go through the code and make sure each stat is used fairly.  A list of
what sorts of things each stat was intended for follows in this document.
Field experience is not included in this patch, but it is a fundamental
concept with these 10 stats.

Lots of sample races for remort 0-3 are included.  The help files are not
included, you should fit them into your own mud.  They cannot simply be
pasted in of course, you also need the form and affect flags and such, 
and the etls are set for Aarchon's 14 classes.

It has a remort system, but the mob prog driven remort areas are not
included.  If you do not want to write a remort area, you can make imm
commands that make use of remort_begin.  It is assumed that the maximum
player level is 100, but with 0 remorts the maximum level is 90.  After
each remort you begin over at level 1 with a new race but the same skills,
and can progress one level higher.  It takes 10 remorts to get to level
100.  New races become available after each remort.

It also includes a connected state based blacksmith system that allows
players to custom design their equipment.  The equipment made and the
prices will have to be brought in line with the standards of your mud.
It is recommended that you do not install this if your mud does not have
a solid economy.  If there are gold loopholes then players will be able
to get insanely powerful equipment.  Make sure that gold is hard to come
by.  Also custom naming equipment uses quest points.  If you do not have
a questing system you may want to disable this or make it gold based.



Adding this code to your mud (advanced coders only):

- Backup your code before you start messing with it.

- Add the files: nanny.c, remort.c, skills.c, smith.c, stats.c

- Add the snippets in misc.c into the files indicated.

- Add any flags referred to in the code that arent in your mud.
	(this may be complicated if you have olc)

- Add any function declarations or calls that are needed.

- Make sure your current pfiles, area files, and save.c are compatible
	with the new format.  If your mud is already open, it may not
	be practical to add a new creation system and new stats.

- This will require quite a bit of adaptation and coding ability, but
	it is also much easier than writing these features from scratch,
	its a good foundation with which to work.



Stat help files:

-1 STRENGTH~

Strength is the ability to exert and resist physical forces and it measures
the character's power and muscle mass.  Strength governs the amount of weight
a character may carry on their person.  Stronger characters deal more damage
when attacking in combat, and are able to wield bulkier weapons with grace.

Strength is the prime stat of such skills as Enhanced Damage, and various
weapon skills, and of the class Warrior.

See HELP STATS for more information.
~
-1 CONSTITUTION~

Constitution is a person's physical make-up: their immune system health,
longevity, bone density, and hygeine.  Characters with robust constitutions
will be able to withstand greater physical damage and have greater maximum
hit oints.  High constitution aids in physical saving throws, particularly
vs. poison and disease.

Constitution is the prime stat of such skills as Cure Critical and Detoxify,
and of the class Samurai.

See HELP STATS for more information.
~
-1 VITALITY~

Vitality is a measure of a character's energy, aerobic fitness, and vim. A
vital character will become exhausted less quickly, and thus will regenerate
hit points and move points faster.  It will also help characters to snap out
of it when they have been dazed by a spell or a blow.

Vitality is the prime stat of such skills as Berserk and Fast Healing, and
of the class Gladiator.

See HELP STATS for more information.
~
-1 AGILITY~

Agility is a measure of overall body limberness, flexibility, and swiftness.
An agile character can more easily evade blows, and thus has a lower armor
class.  Their swiftness grants them more maximum movement points.

Agility is the prime stat of such skills as Sneak and Tumbling, and of the
class Ninja.

See HELP STATS for more information.
~
-1 DEXTERITY~

Dexterity is a measure of hand-eye coordination, accuracy, and manual
finesse.  It allows more accurate attacks, thus decreasing thaco, and
facilitates multiple attacks per round.

Dexterity is the prime stat of such skills as Dual Wield and Steal, and of
the class Thief.

See HELP STATS for more information.
~
-1 INTELLIGENCE~

Intelligence is a characters speed of thought and capacity for reason.
Intelligent characters are quick studies, and can learn skills with
fewer practices and learn quicker from the use of their skills.  They
are able to refocus their magical energies quicker.  Intelligent
characters are less prone to mental attacks than others.  Their
intelligence helps them to better comprehend and make sense of the lessons
learned in action, increasing the rate of conversion of field
experience.

Intelligence is the prime stat of such skills as Scrolls and Astral
Projection, and of the classes Mage and Assassin.

See HELP STATS for more information.
~
-1 WISDOM~

Wisdom, apart from experience, is the property of awareness, judgement, and
emotional health and stability.  Wise characters are in greater touch with
the magical forces of the universe, and have more mana to draw on.  Wisdom
increases perception, allowing you better chance at spotting illusions and
hidden things.  Wisdom also helps characters integrate a larger portion of
what they learn into their current knowledge, as opposed to field experience.

Wisdom is the prime stat of such skills as Lore and Hunt, and of the classes
Cleric and Templar.

See HELP STATS for more information.
~
-1 DISCIPLINE~

Discipline is self-control, orderly conduct, goal-oriented behavior, and
persistence.  Dispciplined adventurers can study longer in the course of a
day, and thus receive more practice sessions over the course of a level.
Discipline also helps you stay focused and remain in action longer without
becoming overwhelmed, so it increases the maximum amount of field
experience you can absorb.  It helps you remain stalwart in the face of
danger, reducing the effectiveness of fear.

Discipline is the prime stat of such skills as Meditation and Rescue, and of
the class Monk.

See HELP STATS for more information.
~
-1 CHARISMA~

Charisma is social grace, eloquence, attractiveness, and persuasiveness.
A charismatic character has better leadership, and will allow groups to
be more cohesive when that person leads, thus reducing the experience
loss in groups of disparate level and alignment.  They will both be able
to resist charm, and to keep charmed followers for longer.  Charisma
also reduces the chance of borderline aggressive monsters attacking.
It is also critical in the success of and resistance to bard song. 

Charisma is the prime stat of such skills as War Cry and Charm Person, and
of the class Paladin.

See HELP STATS for more information.
~
-1 LUCK~

Luck could be called Serendipity, Karma, Fate, Good Fortune... there are
many ways to think about the universal phenomenon.  It is more or less
the property of chance events following a pattern, be it favorable or
not.  Luck helps in all kinds of saving throws.  It is useful in sticky
situations like fleeing, and, in particular, recalling from combat.
Luck helps in risky events like gambling or questing, and lucky
characters reap greater benefits from these tasks.  Dumb luck improves
all of a characters effective skill percentages slightly.  Good luck
also slightly improves thaco and ac.

Luck is the prime stat of such skills as Avoidance and Ignite, and of the
class Illusionist.

See HELP STATS for more information.
~




